USNA Summer Seminar Personal Statement

#Outline

Why are you interested in attending Naval Academy Summer Seminar? 
Have you received any awards (STEM-related, leadership etc) or been involved with any activities, groups, conferences in these mentioned areas?

Outline
  - Want to go to USNA SS to further my personal values of service and excellence
    - Excellence by putting myself into a high-stress environment and challenging myself to adapt and overcome
    - Service through working with the Navy and the Military at large and using SS as a test to find out if I want to serve my country in this way

  - Relation to STEM / Leadership 
    - CAP 
      - STEM
        - Cyber Patriot 
      - Leadership
        - Encampment, Honor Guard, NLD, Soon to be (COS)

#Draft 1

  I am interested in attending the Naval Academy Summer Seminar to further my personal values and learn to serve my country. Those two values are service and excellence. The Summer Seminar presents a very unique opportunity to achieve both. As the Naval Academy ranks among the most prestigious engineering schools it is an amazing chance to truly challenge myself to work in a trying environment and to advance my engineering dexterity to the next level. This high stress environment is personified as the military atmosphere presented by the service academy itself. This presents yet another venture for excellence as it will test me to become the best individual I can be. However, this does not only present an opportunity for me to better myself, it is an opportunity for me to work with other so we can learn and grow as a team. The academy provides an institution where teamwork is a the kernel of its existence. If I am to succeed at this seminar, it will be with a team around me not as just one man. Working with others challenges me to work outside of my own comfort zone and to build me to become a better team player. In my time in Civil Air Patrol, there is one moment that sticks out to me. On veterans day, we were asked to post the colors at a local cemetery to honor the fallen. As I play brass, I brought my trombone along just incase something were to go wrong and I would be available play the bugle calls. As it happened, this did occur. The main bugle player had put a hole in the side of his trumpet after he dropped it. Volunteering my services I stepped forward I informed him that I could play it, just an octave down or so. Standing out on that stage, wearing the uniform which men and women had died in protecting out country, I felt the enormous importance of my actions. I was no longer Joseph Ryan, I was just another face in uniform. The same uniform many veterans there had seen their friends leave this life in. I barely remember playing but I remember the faces of those in front of me as I played. Never had I felt more of this passion then in that moment. I yearn for that moment again and the Summer Seminar can act as the final stepping stone to decide if this is what I truly want to become. 

  In relation to the STEM / leadership field, I have been a member of the US Civil Air Patrol for almost 4 years and it has had an undeniable effect upon my life. Without Civil Air Patrol I would be a very different person and most likely in a much worse off position in life. Much of my formational years have been spent working with my peers to enact real change in and around my community. For many years now I have served on my squadrons Honor Guard which performs at parades, military and civilian functions and was even invited to post the colors at the Investiture of a new Supreme Court Justice in Michigan. The opportunity provided by serving on my Honor Guard has fashioned my entire life around its core idea, above the standard. It is not purely enough to work to get where you are told. Keeping in that theme, this year I was fortunate to be selected to represent the Michigan Wing Civil Air Patrol on Capitol Hill and to speak with my legislators about the program and all the good it has done for me, Michigan and the country at large. This nourished my love for public speaking and working to create real change. 

The reason I want to go is to serve my country. I want to go to the academy. I feel SS is a good way to find of the USNA is the place to start my military career. 

Then go into Academics, + Crew and physical stuff. More listy. Short + sweet!

#Draft 2
 I am interested in attending the Naval Academy Summer Seminar to further my personal values (service and excellence) and learn to serve my country. The Summer Seminar presents a very unique opportunity to achieve both by serving my countru and to challenge myself to succeed in the military environment the Academy provides. The Summer Seminar also peaked my interest as a way for me to truly decide if I wanted to devote my life to serving my country in this way. This program will push me beyond most, if not all, other programs because of its multidiciplinary focus (physicality, leadership and classwork) and the drive to succeed above it all. Not just for myself as an individual but with the team I will work with that week. 

  Throughout my time in highschool, I have been involved in numerous STEM / Leadership activities. Many of these have come through the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) program as well as through my high school. In the realm of Civil Air Patrol, I participated as part of my squadron's color guard / honor guard team for 4 years. These 4 years were marked by a winning streak at our state level cadet competiton and a trip to national cadet competiton where the team placed 8th. Through Civil Air Patrol I have also been able to lead groups of cadets in both my group (5 squadrons) and state level Cadet Advisory Council (which advises the commander). This was no small task as before my tenure, the group of squdrons I participated in had no Cadet Advisory body and my work to get it back, up and running was recognized by a CAP Achivement award for outstanding service to my group. Continuing in the realm of leadership, through my highschool I have to honor of being a coxswain for my high school rowing team. This duty includes being trusted with over $100,000 worth of equiptment (boats, oars, amplification equiptment) every practice to return safely to the dock. I also must act as a coach when none are around, critquing form, running pieces of work and modivating my team to give me as much as the can and then some. However, this job does not just entail me sitting in the boat, steering and yelling. I am expected to do just as much work on land as any of my rowers and I would not expect it any other way. Continuing with my school, I have had the opportunity as well lead efforts with my local chapter of the National Honor Society (NHS) to create a chapter of the National JUNIOR Honor Society at a middle school in my area to promote academic excellence at all levels of schooling. I am also lucky to have been able to take engineering classes while at high school which have taught me the basics of computer modeling, mechanical engineering and problem solving. The Summer Seminar allows me another opportunity to get a tase of the engineering world and what it entails. Finally, Civil Air Patrol has given me great opportunity in the STEM field with programs covering the history of airpower, flight mechanics, model rocketry and cyber security. With my squadron, I have competed for 3 years on a cyber defence competiton team which has now reached the national semi-finals two years in a row! 

  Allow me to conclude my telling a short story. In my time in Civil Air Patrol, there is one moment that sticks out to me. On veterans day, we were asked to post the colors at a local cemetery to honor the fallen. As I play brass, I brought my trombone along just in case something were to go wrong and I would need to be available play the bugle calls. As it happened, this did occur. The main bugle player had put a hole in the side of his trumpet after he dropped it. Volunteering my services I stepped forward and informed him that I could play it, just an octave down or so. Standing out on that stage, wearing the uniform which men and women had died in protecting our country, I felt the enormous importance of my actions. I was no longer Joseph Ryan, I was just another face in uniform. The same uniform many veterans there had seen their friends leave this life in. I barely remember playing but I remember the faces of those in front of me as I played. Never had I felt more of this passion then in that moment. I yearn for that moment again and the Summer Seminar can act as the final stepping stone to decide if this is what I truly want to become. 

#Draft 3

  I am interested in attending the Naval Academy Summer Seminar to further my personal values of sacrifice, service, and excellence while serving my country.The Summer Seminar presents a very unique opportunity to fufill those ideals by challenging myself to succeed in the military environment that the Academy provides. The Summer Seminar has piqued my interest as a way for me to truly decide if I want to devote my life to serving my country in this way. This program will push me beyond most -- if not all -- other programs because of its multi-disciplinary focus of physicality, leadership, and academics:  Not just for myself as an individual, but also with the team I will work with that week.
 
  Throughout my time in high school, I have been involved in numerous STEM / Leadership activities. Many of these have come through my high school and with the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) program. In the Civil Air Patrol, I have participated as part of my squadron's color guard/honor guard team for four years. These four years were marked by a winning streak at our Michigan state-level cadet competition and a trip to national cadet competition where we proudly placed eighth overall.  Also within the Civil Air Patrol, I have been able to lead groups of cadets in both my group (five squadrons) and the state-level Cadet Advisory Council, who advises the commander.  I quickly learned this was no small task. Preceding my tenure, the group of squadrons I participated in had no Cadet Advisory body at all.  My work to get it back up and running was recognized by a CAP Achievement award for outstanding service to my group. 

  Another highlight of my leadership training has been, having the honor of being a coxswain for my high school rowing team. This duty includes being trusted with over $100,000 worth of equipment (boats, oars, amplification equipment) during every practice to return safely to the dock. Also, I must act as a coach when no adult coaches available: critiquing form, running pieces of work, and motivating my team to give me as much as they can ... and then some. However, this job does not just entail me sitting in the boat, steering, and yelling. I am expected to do just as much work on land as any of my rowers, and I would not expect it any other way. 

  In regards of academic achievements, I have had the opportunity leading efforts with my local chapter of the National Honor Society (NHS) to create a chapter of the National Junior Honor Society at a middle school in my area in order to promote academic excellence at all levels of schooling. I am also lucky to have the opportunity to take higher level courses in sujects I am interested in (through the AP program), perform in an excellent wind ensamble, as well as take engineering classes which teach basics of computer modeling, mechanical engineering, and problem-solving. The Summer Seminar allows me another chance to get a taste of the engineering world and what it entails. Finally, the Civil Air Patrol has given me great exposure in the STEM field with programs covering the history of airpower, flight mechanics, model rocketry, and cybersecurity. Our squadron has competed for three years on a cyber-defense competition team, which has reached the national semi-finals two years in a row.
 
  In conclusion, I would like to share a personal short story. In my time in the Civil Air Patrol, there is one moment that sticks out. On Veterans’ Day, we were asked to post the colors at a local cemetery to honor the fallen. As I play a brass instrument, I brought my euphonium (tenor brass instrument) along just in case something were to go wrong, and I would need to be available play the bugle calls. As it happened, something did occur. The main bugle player had put a hole in the side of his trumpet after he dropped it. Volunteering my services, I stepped forward and informed him that I could play it, just an octave lower. 

  Standing out on that stage, wearing the uniform that honors the men and women who have died in it to protect our country, I felt the enormous importance of my actions. I was no longer Joseph Ryan; I was just another face in uniform, the same uniform that many veterans in attendance had seen their dear friends lose their lives wearing. I barely remember playing, but I do remember the faces of those in front of me as I played. Never had I felt more of this passion to be part of our military, to be “something bigger than myself, ” than at that moment. 

  I yearn for that moment again.  I believe the Summer Seminar at the Academy will let me capture it again, and hopefully even many more to come.

